# Data Science as a field- Final report based Kroger Store's Data Analysis

Webpage Link: https://sriram333.github.io/DS-as-a-field-final-report---Kroger-data-analysis/

### **Description of the Statement of Interest:**

Using Kroger Store's Data from API and collected data from 2500 Households,

How can we identify the campaigns that are reaching the most households and generating the highest sales?

**This problem statement is motivated by the following observations:**

There is a lot of variation in the reach of marketing campaigns and sales generated by campaigns, with some campaigns reaching many more households and generating much more sales than others.

The data on campaigns, household ID, Campaign ID, and the number of households to which different campaigns are reached, number of redeems for campaigns, and sales values can be used to identify the campaigns that are reaching the most households and generating the highest sales.

By solving this problem, we can help businesses to identify the most effective marketing campaigns and allocate their resources accordingly. This could lead to increased sales and profitability for businesses.

**Here are some specific questions that could be addressed using the data:**

Which demographic factors affect customer enegagement?

How many customers are spending more or less over time?

Which campaigns are reaching the most households?

Which campaigns are most efficient at generating sales per household reached based on coupon redemptions?


By answering these questions, we can develop a better understanding of how to create marketing campaigns that reach a large number of households and generate high sales.


### **Data sources:**

**Kroger API:**

**Steps to get the api keys and id:**

Link: https://developer.kroger.com/documentation/public/getting-started/quick-start


**Authorization Endpoints:**

1. Get an Authorization Code

2. Get an Access Token

    Link: https://developer.kroger.com/reference#tag/OAuth2



The following APIs are publicly available to allow new clients to build products, services, or customer experiences that leverage the unique data, functions, and applications of Kroger. 

1. **Location API:** The Locations API provides access to all locations, chains, and departments that are owned by The Kroger Co.

    Link: https://developer.kroger.com/reference#tag/Locations


2. **Products API:** The Products API allows you to search the Kroger product catalog.

    Link: https://developer.kroger.com/reference#tag/Products





